All righty, so we're making
some really good progress here.
So in this video, we'll cover step five
of adding the event handler for the checkout component.
So we'll read the selected country
and retrieve the list of states based
on that selected country.
So let's kind of swing back into VS Code here.
And I'll close the terminal here
just to get myself some more space on the screen.
I'll open up this checkout.component.html.
And then I'll move
into the section here for shipping Address.
And so for this formControlName of country,
I'm going to add a event binding.
So for the change event,
I'll call this method here getStates
and then I'll pass in the actual name
of the formControl here.
So I'll say this'll be shippingAddress
because I'll use that to determine do I need
to get the states for shipping address
or getting the states for billing address.
And it's mainly for making the appropriate assignments
once that data is returned from the REST API.
All right so that's a new entry there
and of course, it says that there's an error
because it doesn't know about this method, getStates.
Well, no problem,
we'll create this in our component.ts file.
I'll simply copy that name getStates
and then I'll move over to my checkout.component.ts.
And just as a checkpoint,
make sure you're in the checkout.component.ts right now.
And I will move down to the bottom here
and we'll create this new method.
getStates and they'll pass in the formGroupName.
Now, let's zoom in here for just a second
and I'll actually get a handle
to the formGroup using the formGroupName.
So I'll say this.checkoutformGroup.get
and then formGroupName.
So that'll pass in either shipping address
or they'll pass in billing address.
So just to make sure that it get the actual country
from the right formGroup.
So I'll retrieve the country here
by saying countryCode equals formGroup.value
.country.code.
So that would give me the countryCode
and I'll do a similar thing here
for getting the countryName.
Now, the countryName is not required
for calling the REST API
but I will use this mainly just for debugging
and logging purposes.
But it's not required.
A REST API only uses the countryCode.
So I'll just write some code here real quick
to log the countryCode and also the countryName.
All righty, I'll zoom out here for a second.
Now make a call to the FormService to get the states.
So when I get the states,
I pass in the appropriate countryCode.
I'll do a subscribe
and then once the data's returned,
I'll make an assignment.
But it depends on if I'm making an assignment
for shipping or making an assignment for billing.
So I simply check the formGroupName.
If the formGroupName equals shippingAddress,
then I'll assign it to the shippingAddressStates.
But I don't have shippingAddressStates defined yet.
I need an array
but I don't have it defined in this class.
Oh gosh, okay, so give me a second here.
Let me scroll up to the top of this class
and define that array.
I actually need two separate arrays,
one for shippingAddress and one for billingAddress.
So let's go ahead and do this now.
So I'll have shippingAddressStates.
It's an array of state objects.
Okay, that's taken care of.
And then I'll just do
a little copy, paste here for billingAddress.
So billingAddressStates.
We're going to keep those separate
because when a user chooses their different countries,
we simply want to update the appropriate states
for that given section
for shippingAddress or billingAddress.